THE STEPS INVOLVE IN MACHINE LEARNING CONCEPTS

what is machine learning?

  Machine learning is a systematic workflow to build and deploy models that learn from data.it also about extracting knowledge from data.
we have three types of machine learning:
1:supervised machine learning : are machine learning that train a model base on LABELED DATA. that means the input and output are known. the key types of supervised learning are: Classification and Regression.

2:unsupervised machine learning: are machine learning that deals with UNLABELED DATA. the goal here is to discover the hidden patterns and relationships within the given data. the key types of unsupervised learning  are :Clustering, Dimensionality Reduction, and Association.

3:Reinforcement machine learning: is dynamic programming where an agent learns and make prediction by interacting with and environment and receiving rewards and penalties.

The steps involve in machine learning

1. define the problem
2.data collection and preparation 
3.feature engineering and selection
4.model training and selection
5.model evaluation and optimization 
6.model deployment
5.monitoring and maintenance 


PROJECT OVERVEIW

DEFINING THE PROBLEM :classifying iris species, iris species are flowering plants in the Iridaceae family, renowned for their colorful showy flowers.

DATA COLLECTION AND PREPARATION: iris dataset is a prepared  classic built-in dataset in the scikit- library, widely used as an example for machine learning classification task.

FEATURING ENGINEERING AND SELECTION: the iris dataset provided by sklearn includes 150 samples, each with four measurements :petal length and width, and sepal length and width. species classification is indicated by numerical targets(0,1,2)corresponding respectively to the flower types satosa, versicolor, and  viginica.


MODEL TRAINING AND SELECTION: i select a nearest  kneighbourclassifier  machine learning algorithm and i trained it by allowing it to learn patterns and relationship between the dataset.

MODEL EVALUATION AND OPTIMIZATION: i test my model performance using metric score for the accuracy.

MODEL DEPLOYMENT: i use the k nearest neighbor algorithm for the prediction.